# About / Contact

## Who are we?

The Berkeley Hang Gliding and Paragliding Club is a non-profit group
comprised of pilots ranging in experience from true beginners to
advanced pilots. Originally formed in the 1970s, this hang gliding club
is one of only a select few in the United States that operates as a
cooperative, where students are taught by instructors within the club.
Upon gaining experience and knowledge about the sport of flying, they
will in turn be able to share that knowledge with new students. The
ongoing interaction between students and instructors is one of the great
pleasures and benefits of the club. And because the instructors are
volunteers, learning to hang glide is inexpensive. With more than fifty
active pilots, the club plans weekly trips to the mountains during
flying season, has weekly meetings, and organizes lessons for new pilots
annually.

## More about lessons

Once a year each fall (starting in September), the club organizes lesson
sets for new pilots. The lessons include both ground school, where the
basic concepts of hang gliding are taught while one's feet are still on
the ground, and three weekends of actual flight training. Don't worry
about equipment: the club owns training gliders, harnesses, and helmets.
Contrary to popular belief, one's first flight is not from a cliff.
Training begins on level ground and gradually proceeds uphill as one
gains necessary skills and experience. The emphasis of early flights is
on perfecting launches and landings. Training does not culminate with
the end of formal lessons; hang gliding involves continual learning, and
instructors are always willing to help. Soon you will be heading to the
mountains.

## The Mountain Experience

Pilots in the club enjoy flying at some of the best sites in the world.
The Bay Area is conveniently located in California, the Mecca of hang
gliding. The Coastal Range, the Cascades, and the Sierra Nevada offer
superb flying conditions and extraordinary views. Even closer to the Bay
Area, Mt. Tamalpais entices pilots with beautiful vistas of San
Francisco and the Pacific. For further excitement, club pilots have
recently traveled as far as South Africa and Europe in the search for
big air.

## Contact information

The Berkeley Hang Gliding Club (BHGC) is located in Berkeley, CA. You
can reach us at info[at]bhgc.org.
